
company: Momentus

date: Wed Mar  3 08:27:47 AM EST 2021

stock symbol: now SRAC will become MNTS

business: in-space transportation infrastructure

website: We’ll be enabling a new generation of missions previously
         too expensive or complex to launch. Whether we’ll be delivering 
         your satellite or cargo to its final destination orbit, hosting 
         your payload for the duration of its journey, or servicing it 
         along the way, it’s our goal to make every mission we’ll be a 
         part of more efficient and less expensive

         Every one of our services will make missions possible that
         otherwise would have never been. Last-mile satellite and cargo
         delivery will combine with rideshare launch to make any precise
         destination orbit affordable. Our hosted payload service will
         take years of development off of your mission timeline. And
         our in-orbit services will bring late-mission relief right to
         LEO when you need it most. How can we help?

         How do you get your satellite from a generic orbit to a custom
         one? Our transport vehicles will give you a ride.


         SHUTTLE SERVICE Public transportation is the affordable
         option. Arrive in space atop a large reusable rocket along
         with many other rideshare customers, and our transport and
         service vehicle will carry each satellite to precise, custom
         orbits—it’s the hub and spoke model, in space. After the
         final drop-off, our vehicles will deorbit, but will be reusable
         in the future.


other internet quotes:

         second-ever pure-play space company

         deal announced on 7 oct 2020 

         This morning, privately owned Stable Road Capital announced a
         deal to acquire privately owned space transportation company
         Momentus and bring it public in a $1.2 billion transaction
         facilitated by the SPAC Stable Road Acquisition (NASDAQ:SRAC).

