
If you live on the Moon you have to do something 
about high-energy particles from the Sun and 
elsewhere. If you don't do anything about
it you'll be getting irradiated about 200 times as 
fast as you would on Earth. That can't be healthy 
for long-term exposure.

And if you're unlucky enough to get hit by a decent 
solar flare, that will sicken or kill you. Ten times 
your recommended annual dose, delivered over two or 
three hours.

So! One way to do it is to go underground. Get 20 
inches of lunar soil above you, and that will help 
a lot. You'll still need a much thicker-walled 
storm shelter for the flares.

Personally, however, I find it a little depressing 
to travel a quarter million miles to get to the Moon 
and then dig a hole and live underground.

A gentleman by the name of Marco Peroni has pointed 
out that, with sufficient electricity, we could 
generate an artificial magnetic field to protect us 
from high-energy charged particles. (And I believe 
that essentially all cosmic rays are charged nuclei. 
(90% of which are individual protons.) The Sun may 
also put out neutrons, but if so I have not been able
to find what percentage of the radiation is neutral. 
I assume it's small.)

Neutron update: there will be no neutrons arriving 
from extra-solar sources. Bare neutrons don't last 
long enough to get here. They decay into a proton plus 
an electron with a half-life of only ten minutes.

In fact, I believe this means that basically none can 
get here. Even at the speed of an ultra-fast coronal 
mass ejection -- 2500 miles per second -- the Solar 
material would require 37000 seconds to get to the 
Earth-Moon vicinity. That's 62 half-lives! 

I believe the dangerous-particle ratios are something 
like 99% protons, 9% heavier nuclei, and 1% I don't 
know -- free electrons? So all of those are charged 
(nuclei are always positively charged) and all can be 
defended against by a sufficiently strong magnetic field.

What Mr Peroni suggests is that we build a big torus 
out of cables, energize the cables, and live inside 
the torus. With enough power you are shielded! (And 
if you can use superconducting cables you can do it 
with a lot less power.)

Then we get to live on the surface .  That seems like 
more fun.

